# C_Sharp_Essentials

Do you need to learn the essentials of C#? This two-part series shows you through all the basics. In this course, part one of the series, instructor Matt Milner shows you classes, structs, variables, and much more. Matt begins by placing C# in context with .NET, MSIL, and the Base Class Library. He walks you through understanding and working with classes, structs, and records. Then Matt shows you several useful techniques to organize your C# code. He discusses variables in-depth, then dives into how to define, enable, and test enums, as well as how to use nullable types and work with null objects. Matt goes over if, else, and switch statements and covers switch expressions, the is expression, and an introduction to patterns. Plus, he explains several types of patterns and describes how to use guard conditions to further refine your switch case matches.

As one of the most popular programming languages, C# continues to make programming easier and more fun with each new version. In this course, instructor Matt Milner digs deeper into essential features of C#, such as generic types, collections, handling exceptions, asynchronous programming with tasks, and more. Matt begins with helping you understand and work with generic types, then moves on to understanding collection types, working with collections, and understanding concurrent collections. He walks you through handling different types of exceptions, including creating custom exceptions. Matt explains threading basics and shows you how to use async and await in the task based programming model. After covering delegates and events, he goes over the case for extension methods, as well as how to write and use an extension method. Plus, Matt discusses the goals of Language Integrated Query (LINQ), how to query collections with LINQ, and how to filter and order your queries.